_[Last Updated April 12, 2026]_
> **⚠ Disclaimer: This project is in active development.**
>
> As we have not yet hit a stable release, the information contained here may change unexpectedly and may not line up
with current development progress.
>
>Not all features mentioned are yet implemented, and a feature being listed here does not guarantee that feature will be
available in a release.
>
> Not to sound too legalese, but this software is provided "as is" and without warranty of any kind. Use at your own
risk. Happy modding!

# Vocab

## Library

The collection of all mod entries across all rigs and packs. All of the actual files are stored within here, and the
accompanying service can be used to manage them.

## Mod Entry

A specific version or variant of a mod which occupies its own folder in the library.
Within a rig or pack, only one entry can be active at a time.

Examples: `MC Command Center @ 2026.2.0`, `MC Command Center @ 6.6.0_LE` (Legacy Edition)

## Mod Metadata

The metadata associated with a mod entry. Specifies the details that make that entry what it is.

This data can be stored on entries or on their collective mod. Storing on the mod enables ease of data entry and
supplies "defaults" while storing them on entries enables supporting changes across versions/variants.

## Mod

The representation of the concept of a mod in the game.
Represented by 1 or more mod entries within the library.

Example: `MC Command Center`

## Mod Pack

A collection of mods which together provide some identifiable functionality, such that enabling/disabling them together
makes sense.

The main thing that makes these distinct from categories is that metadata can be stored on the pack itself, enabling
options like whether to enforce partial enabling/disabling of mods/entries within the pack.

Examples could include a zombie mod coupled with a survival mod and some aesthetically relevant CC.

Mod packs track both what mods and what mod entries are active within them. The benefit of this is that rigs are still
able to selectively enable/disable entries within a pack without losing context about where those changes originated
from, enabling easy resets and propagating future pack updates to other rigs.

## Tag

A marker which can be applied to mods, packs, rigs, or their entries.

Tags can be hierarchical, with parent tags allowing for grouping and filtering of child tags.

Some will be automatically provided, but users can create their own.

### Category

A tag under the hood which is used to organize mods by category.

Under the hood, they're just tags - nothing special; the difference is merely semantic.

### Role

A tag which can be used to describe the impact or role of a entry, mod, pack, or rig.

things like "required" or "recommended" or "nice to have"

## Mod Rig

A set of mods which are deployed together.

Before launching the game, a rig should be selected, and its mod entries will be deployed to the game's mods folder.

Save files can be associated with a rig, enabling you to easily manage multiple saves that use different rigs, and
making it so that only that rig's save files are visible in game.

Only one rig can be active at a time. If you want to enable multiple sets of mods at the same time, utilize packs.

## Mod Profile

The page describing a mod and all its associated details and metadata, like who made it, where it came from, what it
does, what rigs it is active in, its category, etc.

This is a front-end concept, and pulls a lot of data together.

## Staging

The process of storing ready-to-go yet un-deployed mod data in the library, allowing for easy management of mods, packs,
and rigs without affecting the game's mods folder until ready.

Staging occurs in the library, and ensures all of the mod data is stably stored in a place where it can be easily
accessed and managed.

## Deployment

The process of selectively moving mod data from a rig into the game's mods folder.

Folders are newly created for each mod, which store the active mod entry files.

- Known game-immutable file types like .package and .ts4script are symlinked into these folders, as we can safely assume
  that they won't change during the game's runtime.
- Any other files that are >10MB are copied into these folders and monitored for changes.
- Any unhandled file type that is over 10MB triggers a user prompt to ask how to handle the file type in the future or
  whether to treat it as an exception.

### Runtime Changes

Represents any additional files that are generated by mods at runtime.

These files are not part of the mod's distribution, and need to be tracked and managed separately to ensure a staged mod
can cleanly be used across multiple rigs without cross-contamination.

After the game runtime exits (or on the next boot of PMM when the game is not running),
runtime changes are copied back to a special staging folder associated with the rig, where they can be easily managed
and monitored.

The user can examine this folder and choose whether to keep, remove, or associate file changes with a specific mod or
mod entry, as these can be anything from config files, backups, or even external metadata

Runtime changes are tracked not just in the game's mods folder, but in the saves folder as well.

Internally, these changes are tracked using a combination of file system monitoring and user-defined exception handling.
This allows PMM to maintain a clear separation between mod data and runtime changes, ensuring that mods can be easily
managed and deployed across multiple rigs, a feature inspired by MO2.





